
Intro

I want to generate drums!

I want new drums!

Can I generate programs to make drums?

If I generate programs I will generate too many! How can I listen to them all? I can't!

I have lots of samples of drums though! I can treat these as labels to learn what drums sound like.

I can train an virtual drummer's ear to discriminate if a generated sound is a drum. Then I can learn ranges of synth parameters and programs that produce drums of certain types!

*** Imagine you learned the distribution, now you have pippi going and you keep hitting kick and you hear a new kick each time and it is a kick because you know the distribution ***
Prior work


Ear Methodology
Train a classifier on drum samples to produce ear
Evaluate classifier with F-1 and other ML measures
^ This methodology needs to be cross-folds validation or 80/20 split repeated 5 times
Ear Results
Our Ear is so successful see the results.

Now we can use the ear to classify new sounds as drums
Synth Generation Methodology
We will generate synthesizer programs, synthesizer programs also include parameters for the synths internal to the program.
A synthstack is a synthesizer program. Synths are synthesizer submodules like: oscillators etc.

Successful synthesizer sounds typically are more complicated that 3 parameters and a filter, they typically have a schedule of parameters so the parameters can be a constrained timeseries.

Drums allow us to keep these timeseries short.

General methodology

Search for a synth -> Given a generated synth, execute it, extract sound, compare sound in ear to drums, if it confidently makes a drum keep it

Evaluate method by distribution of generated drums. Rank by confidence or distance to drum sounds.

Sample 100 per category and YES/NO if it is a kick or snare or a hi hat etc.
Random Search Methodology
Search for a synth is replaced with random search whereby time or resources are given and many synths are generated and only the top confident synths are kept for evaluation. E.g. in 3 minutes return the best 10 synths in each category or for a given category here's 1 minute find a synth.

Then go the general methodology for evaluation
Genetic Search Methodology

1 synth category is chosen. Random synths are seeded. fitness function is distance to synth category. Repeat.

Then do the general methodology for the top ranked.
Distribution Learning Methodology
Based on prior searches build up a relationship between parameter distributions and categories
Learn the parameters. Sample parameters from the distribution for a specific category and ...

Then do the general methodology for the top ranked.

Evaluation Results

Compare Random Search, Genetic Search, and Distribution Sampling in terms of F-1 and different category.

Sample some of the results and listen to them.

Discussion

Discuss future uses
Conclusions
Brief summary

Conclude results and direction it points